# Monitor Cluster Components

Monitor resource consumption on K8s.
## What we need to monitor?
- node level metrics no. of nodes, how many are healthy, performance metrics
- pod level metrics - cpu and memory consumption

k8s do not come with any full feature built in monitor solution. Although some 3rd party and open source monitoring solutions are there,

open source solutions e.g
- metrics server
- Prometheus
- Elastic Stack
- Datadog
- dynatrace

- Heapster was one of the original solution which enabled monitoring on k8s. (is deprecated now)
- It is slim down to Metrics server
    - We can have one metric server per k8s cluster.
    - Metric server retreives metrics from each nodesa and pods and stores to memory.
    - note that metrics server is only an in memory monitoring solution.
    - cann't see historical data.

# How metrics are generated from the nodes and Pods to this Metric server?
K8s runs an agent on each node, called Kubelet -  which is responsible for receiving intructions from K8s API master server and running Pods on the nodes.
Kubelet also contains a sub component called cAdvisor=container Advisor -> responsible for retreiving performance metrics from the Pod and exposing them to Kubelet API to make the metrics available for Metrics Server.

Question:
Which add-on to enable for getting started with K8s metric server?
- git clone < >

wait for some time once deployed,
then run `kubectl top po` and `kubectl top node`

# Managing Applications Logs
- How we check container logs in docker?
` docker run nginx`
give a running container with nginx image with ID say `ebf53b2k`
 To check logs for this container,
`docker logs -f ebf` will give logs.

In K8s, a Pod can have multiple Pods,
To view container logs in K8s,
`kubectl logs -f <pod-name> <container-name>


